

## Q. When I run ostinato, it does not start drone (the server) automatically ##
Check the following -
  * The drone executable is in the same path as ostinato
  * The path does not contain any spaces
  * You have WinPcap installed (Windows Only)

## Q. I don't like running Ostinato/Drone as root. Is there an alternative? ##
If you are using Linux, and your distro provides the `setcap` utility to set capabilities, you are in luck -
```
setcap cap_net_raw,cap_net_admin=eip /usr/bin/drone
```

You should now be able to run Ostinato/Drone as a normal user
## Q. After starting Ostinato, the port group status is disconnected (the port group icon is red) ##
### Q. I cannot connect to the port group ###
Check if drone is running. If yes, try reconnecting to the port (File | Connect Port Group). If drone is not running, try running drone manually

## Q. I don't see any ports in my port list ##
### Q. I'm unable to expand the port group ###
### Q. Port group has no interfaces ###
Check the following in the order given -
  * Verify that the port group status is "connected" (the port group icon is green)
  * Check that ports are not administratively disabled
  * Ensure that drone is running with admin privileges
    * **Windows**: Ostinato uses WinPcap on Windows. Typically WinPcap is installed to run at startup and applications using WinPcap don't need anything special to be done. If however, this isn't the case for you, you can right click on the Ostinato application and select "Run as administrator".
    * **Linux/BSD**: If your distro supports `sudo` use `sudo ostinato`, otherwise become root by doing `su` and then run `ostinato`
    * **Mac OSX**: Use `sudo /Applications/Ostinato/Ostinato.app/Contents/MacOS/Ostinato`

## Q. On starting Ostinato/Drone, I get an error _"bound address is already in use"_. What's wrong? ##
The error indicates that some application is already using the TCP port number (7878) that is used by drone. Check if drone is already running - if not, maybe some other application is running that is using that port number (use netstat to check). You can change the port number that drone uses by passing it as a command line argument - `drone <port-number>`. From Ostinato, you will need to connect to drone on that particular port by specifying it in the "New Port Group" command.


## Q. What is the maximum transmit rate that Ostinato supports? ##
It depends. Since the traffic is generated by software, it depends on the capabilities (CPU, memory etc.) of the host running `drone`. To generate "top-speed" traffic, configure a stream with "Packets/Sec" as 0 (Zero). If running on Windows, also configure the "Number of Packets" to be at least 100.

If packet size is not of concern, just the bits per second throughput, use the largest packet size you can.

## Q. When I try to view the capture buffer, Wireshark gives me an error _"The file could not be opened: Uncompression error: buffer error"_. What's wrong? ##
The error indicates there are no packets in the packet buffer - maybe you forgot to start capture?

## Q. Can I save/restore streams across Ostinato sessions? ##
Save/Restore streams is supported from version 0.2 onwards. However, the file format is **not final** yet - see [FileFormat Spec](http://code.google.com/p/ostinato/wiki/FileFormat) for more information on backward and forward compatibility.

## Q. Can I open/save PCAP (wireshark) files? ##
PCAP/PDML import/export is supported Ostinato 0.4 onwards

## Q. Why isn't my PCAP file imported correctly? Ostinato shows a "diff" after import ##
Ostinato has some limitations when importing PCAP files -
  * The following external programs are required - tshark, gzip, awk and diff (except for tshark, the remaining should be available by default on any `*`nix system and for Windows these are shipped alongwith the Ostinato binaries)
  * Only ethernet encapsulation is supported currently
  * The "intelligent import" option is dependent on the tshark version - for best results we recommend that you always run the latest tshark/Wireshark version
  * Packets with length > 16K are truncated
  * Some text based protocols may be imported as a hexdump instead of text - please report such instances on the mailing list alongwith the PCAP file so that this may be enhanced in future versions of Ostinato

## Q. How do I see debug console logs on Windows platforms? ##
On a Windows platform, console logs from GUI applications do not go to STDOUT or STDERR but to a special "debugging" window. Install the free application [DebugView](http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb896647.aspx) and run it before you start Ostinato/Drone. Logs from Ostinato/Drone will be shown within DebugView. You can copy-paste logs from this window or save the entire log as a text file.

NOTE: Starting version 0.6, Drone is now a pure console app and not a GUI app, so debug output from Drone does not go to the "debugging" window but to the console stdout. To capture Drone output starting version 0.6, you will need to run drone from a cmd/powershell terminal.


## <font color='green'>Q. The FAQ doesn't answer my question. What do I do? </font> ##
Drop a mail to the Ostinato mailing list - ostinato at googlegroups dot com (instead of adding a comment to this wiki page!)